Instructor: So we now need to fix this link
between 2951 and 2952.
Both switches are showing messages
that there's a duplex problem.
So CDP does a nice job here
of showing us that there's a problem.
Write show run interface f0/4.
We can see the speed and duplex are hard coded.
Show run interface f0/4.
On this side, it's 100 half duplex,
on this side, it's 100 full duplex.
So that's a simple fix of setting the duplex to full.
The interface has gone down and comes up again,
and hopefully that's resolved the problem.
We could clear the counters as an example,
on F0/4, and do the same here.
Clear counters f0/4,
and then we could after a while look at those counters
and see if we find any problems.
But that should have solved the problem
of a duplex mismatch.
To confirm it, show interface f0/4.
Right at the top here we can see,
so here's the command,
here's the speed and duplex of the interface.
Interface is up up, and it's connected.
Show interface f0/4 on switch two.
Here's the command, once again.
Duplex and speed are shown here as well.
Interface is up up, and it's connected.
We are not seeing any errors on this interface,
and on this one we are also not seeing any errors.
So that hopefully has resolved the problem
on this link and this link.
So be careful hard coding speed and duplex.
Auto negotiation may negotiate correctly, but it may not.
Generally today with gigabit and faster links
your problems are not as bad as they used to be
on 10/100 links.
Let's see what happens if we configure speed and duplex
on one side and leave the other side for auto negotiation.
So on 2951, we will configure this interface
with a speed of 100, duplex of full.
Interface has gone down.
Interface will hopefully come up, and there you go.
Here is the 3750,
and we can see that it's complaining
about a duplex mismatch.
So show run interface f1/0/3.
No duplex or speed is being configured on this interface.
Show interface f1/0/3.
This side is using 100 Mb, half duplex,
whereas this side
is using 100 Mb, full duplex.
So if you have one side configured for auto negotiation,
and the other side is hard coded,
you may have a problem because this side is not negotiating
with the other side,
and this side may take a fallback position.
Sometimes it's able,
especially on gigabit and later interfaces,
to still work out what the other side is using
and set its duplex and speed accordingly.
But here it wasn't able to do that
because the 2950s are older switches.
So to resolve this,
let's configure the 2950 for auto negotiation.
So F0/1, this interface,
speed auto,
duplex auto.
Interface has gone down, hopefully it'll come up,
and hopefully they'll be able to negotiate successfully.
So 3750 is showing up, 2950 is showing up.
Show interface f1/0/3,
full duplex, 100 Mb,
so that side is 100 Mb, full duplex.
Do show interface f0/1,
on this side full duplex, 100 Mb.
So they've negotiated successfully.
So moral of the story is either configure both sides
for auto negotiation, or hard code both sides.
Generally today you're going to allow both sides
to auto negotiate.
Show run interface f1/0/1.
Now this is the link between the two 3750s,
F1/0/1.
This interface isn't currently connected,
so we've got one interface, F1/0/1,
between the two 3750s.
One side is not set for speed and duplex, it's set for auto.
The other side is using 100 half,
but in this case
the site set for auto negotiation has reverted
to 100 Mb, half duplex.
So that's worked out okay in this example.
However, if I change this to have a duplex of full,
the negotiation will probably fail,
and we'll have a duplex mismatch.
Interfaces have come up.
Let's see what it's done.
In this example, it's negotiated correctly,
full duplex, 100 Mb.
This side do show interface f1/0/1,
So we manually configured this side with speed and duplex.
This side has been able
to work out what the speed and duplex should be.
So let's set the speed here to 10,
and the duplex to half.
(bell dinging)
And let's see if the switches
can successfully negotiate that.
So interface has come up,
show interface f1/0/1,
and I'll simply include the duplex
so we don't see all the output.
Notice here it's negotiated properly.
So on this switch
it's been manually configured for half duplex, 10 Mb,
and this switch has successfully negotiated that.
If I change the duplex here to full,
let's see what happens now when the interface comes up.
So here it's 10 Mb, full duplex,
on this side it's also 10 Mb, full duplex.
So the 3750s are negotiating correctly without any problems,
but that wasn't happening between a 3750 and a 2950.
So let's set the speed to 100.
So show interface and look at the duplex that's been set.
Try that again.
100, full duplex,
this side 100, full duplex.
So in this case, when I set the one side,
it's successfully negotiating with the other side,
but we had problems with negotiation
between the 3750 and 2950.
So generally the moral of the story is
auto negotiation on both sides or hard code on both sides.
Mixing and matching can cause problems.
Today the general recommendation is use auto everywhere
except perhaps between core links
where you wanna hard code both sides
to increase the speed of that interface coming up.